Add guide for migrating from InfluxDB 1.x to Timestream for InfluxDB (#26)
Bit-Quill/amazon-timestream-tools: influxdb_migration_1_to_timestream_for_influxdb_guide.md

# Manually migrate from InfluxDB 1.x to Amazon Timestream for InfluxDB

This is an adaptation of [InfluxData's official guide for migrating from InfluxDB 1.x to InfluxDB 2.7](https://docs.influxdata.com/influxdb/v2/install/upgrade/v1-to-v2/manual-upgrade/). The difference between this guide and that guide is that no InfluxDB 2.x instance is created in this guide. Instead, all data is exported from InfluxDB 1.x and migrated to Timestream for InfluxDB using the Influx CLI and the instance's endpoint and an operator token.

To manually upgrade from InfluxDB 1.x to Amazon Timestream for InfluxDB:

1. [Migrate custom configuration settings](#migrate-custom-configuration-settings).
2. [Create DBRP mappings](#create-dbrp-mappings).
3. [Create authorizations](#create-authorizations).
4. [Migrate time series data](#migrate-time-series-data).
5. [Migrate continuous queries](#migrate-continuous-queries).

> 

Reviewer: nit: add Pre-requisites Section

Author: Added.

## Migrate custom configuration settings

If you’re using custom configuration settings in your InfluxDB 1.x instance, do the following:

>   1. Compare 1.x and 2.7 configuration settings:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  1. Compare 1.x and Amazon Timestream for InfluxDB configuration settings:
```

      <details>

>         <summary>View configuration option parity</summary>

Author: This is a collapsible element. It rendered properly in VS Code.

      | max-concurrent-write-limit         |                                            |
      | max-enqueued-write-limit           |                                            |
      | enqueued-write-timeout             | http-write-timeout                         |
      |                                    |                                            |
      | [**logging**]                      |                                            |
      | format                             |                                            |
      | level                              | log-level                                  |
      | suppress-logo                      |                                            |
      |                                    |                                            |
      | [**tls**]                          |                                            |
      | ciphers                            | tls-strict-ciphers                         |
      | min-version                        | tls-min-version                            |
      | max-version                        |                                            |

      </details>
  

>   2. Apply your 1.x custom settings to the comparable InfluxDB 2.7 settings using `influxd` flags, environment variables, or a 2.7 configuration file. For more information about configuring InfluxDB 2.7, see [Configuration options](https://docs.influxdata.com/influxdb/v2/reference/config-options/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  2. Apply your 1.x custom settings to the comparable Amazon Timestream for InfluxDB settings using `influxd` flags, environment variables, or a Amazon Timestream for InfluxDB configuration file. For more information about configuring InfluxDB 2.7, see [Configuration options](https://docs.influxdata.com/influxdb/v2/reference/config-options/).
```

Global nit: Shall we replace 2.7 with Amazon Timestream for InfluxDB across the guide (for consistency)?

Author: Yes, 2.7 should be replaced with Amazon Timestream for InfluxDB or just Timestream for InfluxDB across the guide.

  3. Restart `influxd`.

## Create DBRP mappings

InfluxDB database and retention policy (DBRP) mappings associate database and retention policy combinations with Timestream for InfluxDB buckets. These mappings allow InfluxDB 1.x clients to successfully query and write to Timestream for InfluxDB buckets while using the 1.x DBRP convention.

For more information about DBRP mapping, see Database and retention policy mapping.

To map a DBRP combination to a Timestream for InfluxDB bucket:

1. Create a bucket
  

>     Create a bucket in Timestream for InfluxDB. We recommend creating a bucket for each unique 1.x database and retention policy combination using the following naming convention:

Reviewer: nit: shall we provide command on how to create buckets?

Author: I have provided the command to create buckets in Timestream for InfluxDB.

    ```shell
    # Naming convention
    db-name/rp-name

    # Example
    telegraf/autogen
    ```

2. Create a DBRP mapping
    
    Use the `influx v1 dbrp create` command to create a DBRP mapping. Provide the following:

      - Database name.
      - Retention policy name (not retention period).
      - Bucket ID.
      - (Optional) `--default` flag if you want the retention policy to be the default retention policy for the specified database.

    ```shell
    # DB with one RP DB

>     influx v1 dbrp create \

Author: All Influx CLI commands should be tested. The InfluxData guide assumes users are running Influx CLI commands locally, on the InfluxDB 2.7 instance, so their examples don't specify host, org, or token.

      --host <Timestream for InfluxDB endpoint> \
      --token <token> \
      --db example-db \
      --rp example-rp \

>       --bucket-id 00xX00o0X001 \

Reviewer: Perhaps for my knowledge - is 00xX00o0X001 - expected?

Author: This is the example InfluxData provided for bucket IDs in InfluxDB 1.x. We can confirm.

   *We recommend exporting each DBRP combination separately to easily write data to a corresponding InfluxDB 2.7 bucket*.

   ```shell
    # Syntax
    influx_inspect export \
      -database <database-name> \
      -retention <retention-policy-name> \
      -out <output-file-path> \
      -lponly

    # Example
    influx_inspect export \
      -database example-db \
      -retention example-rp \
      -out /path/to/example-db_example-rp.lp \
      -lponly
   ```

2. Use the Influx CLI `influx write` command to write the exported line protocol to Timestream for InfluxDB.
   ```shell
    # Syntax
    influx write \
      --host <Timestream for InfluxDB endpoint> \ # For example, https://my-endpoint:8086
      --org <org> \
      --token <token>
      --bucket <bucket-name> \
      --file <path-to-line-protocol-file>

    # Example
    influx write \
      --host <Timestream for InfluxDB endpoint> \
      --org <org> \
      --token <token>
      --bucket example-db/example-rp \
      --file /path/to/example-db_example-rp.lp
   ```

3. Repeat steps 1-2 for each bucket.

## Migrate continuous queries

> For information about migrating InfluxDB 1.x continuous queries to Timestream for InfluxDB tasks, see InfluxData's [Migrate continuous queries to tasks](https://docs.influxdata.com/influxdb/v2/install/upgrade/v1-to-v2/migrate-cqs/) guide.

Author: The guide for migrating continuous queries is massive. I thought it would be better to follow what the InfluxDB 1.x to 2.7 guide does and simply link to the guide for migrating continuous queries.
